Now that you've learned the
inner workings of computers,
let's discuss how users and
operating systems
communicate with each other.
So far, you've learned
that a computer has
an operating system,
hardware, and applications.
Remember, the operating system
communicates with the
hardware to execute tasks.
In this video, you'll
learn how the
user—that's you—interacts with
the operating system in order to
send tasks to the hardware.
The user communicates with
the operating system
via an interface.
A user interface is a
program that allows
a user to control the functions
of the operating system.
Two user interfaces
that we'll discuss are
the graphical user interface, or
GUI, and the command-line
interface, or CLI.
Let's cover these
interfaces in more detail.
A GUI is a user interface
that uses icons on
the screen to manage different
tasks on the computer.
Most operating systems can be
used with a graphical
user interface.
If you've used a personal
computer or a cell phone,
you have experienced
operating a GUI.
Most GUIs include
these components:
a start menu with
program groups,
a task bar for
launching programs,
and a desktop with
icons and shortcuts.
All these components help you
communicate with the
OS to execute tasks.
In addition to
clicking on icons,
when you use a GUI,
you can also search for files or
applications from
the start menu.
You just have to remember
the icon or name
of the program to
activate an application.
Now let's discuss the
command-line interface.
In comparison, the command-line
interface, or CLI,
is a text-based user interface
that uses commands to
interact with the computer.
These commands communicate with
the operating system and execute
tasks like opening programs.
The command-line interface is
a much different structure
than the graphical
user interface.
When you use the CLI,
you'll immediately
notice a difference.
There are no icons or
graphics on the screen.
The command-line interface
looks similar to
lines of code using
certain text languages.
A CLI is more flexible and
more powerful than a GUI.
Think about using a CLI
like creating whatever
meal you'd like
from ingredients bought
at a grocery store.
This gives you a
lot of control and
customization about what
you're going to eat.
In comparison,
using a GUI is more like
ordering food from a restaurant.
You can only order
what's on the menu.
If you want both a
noodle dish and pizza,
but the first restaurant
you go to only has pizza,
you'll have to go to
another restaurant
to order the noodles.
With a graphical user interface,
you must do one task at a time.
But the command-line interface
allows for customization,
which lets you complete
multiple tasks simultaneously.
For example, imagine you
have a folder with
hundreds of files of
different file types,
and you need to
move only the JPEG
files to a new folder.
Think about how slow and
tedious this would be
as you use a GUI to
find each JPEG file in
this folder and move
it into the new one.
On the other hand, the
CLI would allow you to
streamline this process
and move them all at once.
As you can see, there are
very big differences in
these two types of
user interfaces.
As a security analyst,
some of your work may involve
the command-line interface.
When analyzing logs or
authenticating and
authorizing users,
security analysts commonly use
a CLI in their everyday work.
In this video, we discussed two
types of user interfaces.
You learned that you already have
experience using a
graphical user interface,
as most personal computers
and cell phones use a GUI.
You were introduced to the
command-line interface.
Later in the program,
you'll learn how to use
a CLI in Linux and how
relevant it is to your daily
work as a security analyst.
You'll get practical experience
communicating through the
command line. Pretty exciting, right?